:::hgroup{.titlegroup}

# hw 1: statistics in the media

Andrew Chang-DeWitt \
Math 474, Fall 2025 \
2025 Aug. 20

:::

## example 1: increase in threats to school officials

In the July 2025 NPR article, "Since COVID, threats to local school officials
have nearly tripled, research finds", Frank Langfitt reports on a study
tracking changes in threats to school officials fromm 2023 to 2025. According
to the article, the study by Princton University's Bridging Divides Initiative
seeks to document how this behavior has "shifted and grown" [[1]][langfitt]. To
gather data, researchers quantified threats (& various properties of the
threats) received by a sample of 820 school board officials via survey.
Additionally, they contucted deeper interviews with 39 officials to uncover
qualititative data about the threats. In their survey & interviews, researchers
asked questions to discover if respondants (variables) had "been targets of
harassment or threats", in addition to what topics or opinions might be
motivating the persons inflicting the aggressive behavior upon the officials as
well as demographic information of the officials [[1]][langfitt].

According to Langfitt, the researchers found that for the time period from
November 2024 through April 2025, "harassment & threats [increased by] 170%"
compared to November 2022 through April 2023. Qualititative findings uncovered
a wide variety of motives for the behavior correlated with national political
trends to diminish the power of (or eliminate entirely) DEI &/or gender &
sexuality policies. Perhaps surpisingly, the researchers were reported as
saying that despite this trend in motives by individuals inflicting the
aggressive behavior, the victims public & private political identites seemed to
hold no influence over the behavior. To put it another way, aggressors tended
to exhibit socially regressive political views while they selected targets who
held their same views about as often as they selected targets who did
not [[1]][langfitt].

There were no graphs or other visual displays of the data included in the
article; however, the study quoted by the article did include a simple visual
of how many variables experienced harassments & threats proportional to those
who did not for each of the sampled time periods [[2]][bdi]. While Langfitt did
indicate that the data was collected via survey, they did not discuss how
participants were selected or any other methodology regarding
sampling [[1]][langfitt]. With this limited information, it's possible to guess
that there could be some form of selection bias (where participants self-select
based on their experiences); however, without reading further into the study,
readers would not know if the researchers attempted to mitigate this or any
other possible biases.

## example 2: infant mortality interventions

Reported on by Jonathan Lambert for NPR's Goats & Soda column, a new study on
reducing infant mortality found money, an atypical intervention, to be
surprisingly effective. Researchers from the National Buereau of Economic
Research were attempting to find new ways to improve outcomes for infants born
in "low- and middle-income countries". In their 2014 experiment, the
researchers gave varying amounts of money to a population of over 10,000
households experiencing poverty in rural Kenya over 3 years, then collected
data on over 100,000 children who were born & died before age 5 in the last
decade in the study area. This intervention allowed researchers to model the
intervention as a "randomized control trial" to quantify the effectiveness of
different amounts of money given at different times relative to a birth at
reducing mortality of those children [[3]][lambert]

According to Lambert, the researchers found that "cash payements were
associated with a 48% drop in infant mortality" and a 45% drop in mortality for
children under 5. Additionally, payments were found to reduce "deaths during
birth & in the few weeks after" by 70%. Similar to the article by Langfitt, no
graphics were included to visualize the data. Lambert does share that the
experiment was conducted for all families in a geographic region, indicating
that this was a population study, thus eliminating sample bias regarding that
specific population [[3]][lambert].

:::section{#references}

# references

<ol>

Frank Langfitt. 2025. Since COVID, threats to local school officials have
nearly tripled, research finds. _National Public Radio_, (July 2025). Retrieved
August 22nd, 2025 from
[https://www.npr.org/2025/07/11/nx-s1-5428534/school-board-members-threats-harassment-dei-lgbtq-covid-pandemic-princeton](https://www.npr.org/2025/07/11/nx-s1-5428534/school-board-members-threats-harassment-dei-lgbtq-covid-pandemic-princeton)

[langfitt]: https://www.npr.org/2025/07/11/nx-s1-5428534/school-board-members-threats-harassment-dei-lgbtq-covid-pandemic-princeton "[Langfitt, NPR] Since COVID, threats to local school officials have nearly
tripled, research finds"

Bridging Divides Initiative. 2025. Mitigating threats against school board
officials. (2025). Retrieved August 22nd, 2025 from
[https://bridgingdivides.princeton.edu/mitigating-threats-against-school-board-officials](https://bridgingdivides.princeton.edu/mitigating-threats-against-school-board-officials)

[bdi]: https://bridgingdivides.princeton.edu/mitigating-threats-against-school-board-officials "[Bridging Divides Initiative, Princeton] Mitigating threats against school
board officials"

Jonathan Lambert. 2025. Researchers discover a secret weapon that saves babies'
lives. And it's not medical. _National Public Radio_, (August 2025). Retreived
August 22nd, 2025 from
[https://www.npr.org/sections/goats-and-soda/2025/08/18/g-s1-83197/infants-health-cash-aid-kenya](https://www.npr.org/sections/goats-and-soda/2025/08/18/g-s1-83197/infants-health-cash-aid-kenya)

[lambert]: https://www.npr.org/sections/goats-and-soda/2025/08/18/g-s1-83197/infants-health-cash-aid-kenya "[National Public Radio] Researchers discover a secret weapon that saves
babies' lives. And it's not medical."

</ol>

:::
