:::hgroup{.titlegroup}

# hw 6

Andrew Chang-DeWitt \
Math 474, Fall 2025 \
2025 Sept. 30

:::

<section>

## problem 1

> (Applying the concepts of a random variable and its mean.)
>
> The Acme Shipping Company has learned from experience that it costs
> $14.80 to deliver a small package overnight. The company charges $20
> for such a shipment, but guarantees that they will refund the $20
> charge if it does not arrive within 24 hours.

<section>

### part (a)

> Let `X` be a discrete random variable representing the outcomes for
> the Acme Shipping Company. What are the possible values for `X`?

$$
\begin{aligned}
(1) && && X &:= \{\$20, \$0\}
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (b)

> Suppose Acme successfully delivers 96% of its packages within 24
> hours. What are the probabilities that correspond to the values for
> `X` you found in the previous question?

$$
\begin{aligned}
(2) && && P(X = x_1) &:= 0.96 \\
(3) && && P(X = x_2) &:= P(x_1') = 0.04
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (c)

> Using the information from the previous two questions, what is the
> expected gain or loss for delivering a package?

$$
\begin{aligned}
(4) && \because
       && f(x) &= \Bigg\lbrace\begin{aligned}
                    & 0.96, & \text{if } x \equiv \$20 \\
                    & 0.04, & \text{otherwise}
                  \end{aligned} &&
  \textit{\{1,2,3\} piecewise pmf for $X$} \\
(5) && &&    g(X) &= X - \$14.80 &&
  \textit{amount gained/lost per package} \\
    && \therefore
       && E[g(X)] &= \sum_x g(x)f(x) &&
  \textit{\{theorem 4.1 [Walpole, Myers, Myers, Ye]\}} \\
    && &&         &= (20 - 14.80)(0.96) \\
    && &&         &\space\space+ (0 - 14.80)(0.04) &&
  \textit{\{4,5\}} \\
    && &&         &= 4.992 - 0.592 \\
    && && E[g(X)] &= \$4.40 \quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
</section>
<section>

## problem 2

> Solve exercise 2.106 in the textbook:
>
> The probabilities that a service station will pump gas into `0`, `1`,
> `2`, `3`, `4`, or `5` or more cars during a certain 30-minute period
> are `0.03`, `0.18`, `0.24`, `0.28`, `0.10`, and `0.17`, respectively.

$$
\begin{aligned}
(6)  && &&    X &:= \{0,1,2,3,4,5\} \\
     && &&    P &:=                     \{0.03,0.18,0.24,\\
     && &&      &\space\space\space\space 0.28,0.10,0.17\} \\
(7)  && && f(x) &= P[IndexOf(x,X)] &&
  \textit{pdf; gets P(x) from P by index of x in X }
\end{aligned}
$$

> Find the probability that in this 30-minute period:

<section>

### part (a)

> - more than 2 cars receive gas;

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && &&    A &:= \{x_3\} \cup \{x_4\} \cup \{x_5\} &&
  \textit{event more than 2 cars receive gas} \\
     && && P(A) &= P(3) \cup P(4) \cup P(5) \\
     && &&      &= 0.28 + 0.10 + 0.17 &&
  \textit{\{6,7\}} \\
     && && P(A) &= 0.55 \quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (b)

> - at most 4 cars receive gas;

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && &&    B &:= \{x_0\} \cup \{x_1\} \cup \{x_2\} \cup \{x_3\} \cup \{x_4\} &&
  \textit{event at most 4 cars receive gas} \\
     && && P(B) &= P(0) \cup P(1) \cup P(2) \cup P(3) \cup P(4) \\
     && &&      &= 0.03 + 0.18 + 0.24 + 0.28 + 0.10 &&
  \textit{\{6,7\}} \\
     && && P(B) &= 0.83 \quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (c)

> - 4 or more cars receive gas.

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && &&    C &:= \{x_4\} \cup \{x_5\} &&
  \textit{event more than 3 cars receive gas} \\
     && && P(C) &= P(4) \cup P(5) \\
     && &&      &= 0.10 + 0.17 &&
  \textit{\{6,7\}} \\
     && && P(C) &= 0.27 \quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
</section>
<section>

## problem 3

> Solve exercise 2.108 in the textbook:
>
> If the probability is `0.1` that a person will make a mistake on his
> or her state income tax return, find the probability that

$$
\begin{aligned}
(8)  && &&    M &:= \text{event person makes a mistake} \\
(9)  && &&    N &:= \text{event person does not make a mistake} \\
(10) && && P(M) &:= 0.1 \\
(11) && && P(N) &:= 0.9 \\
(12) && && \text{"totally unrea} &\text{lted"}
           \implies \text{Independent} \\
\end{aligned}
$$

<section>

### part (a)

> - four totally unrelated persons each make a mistake;

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && && P(M \cap M \cap M \cap M) &= P(M)^4 &&
  \textit{\{12, theorem 2.11 [Walpole, Myers, Myers, Ye]\}} \\
     && &&                           &= 0.1^4 &&
  \textit{\{10\}} \\
     && && P(M \cap M \cap M \cap M) &= 0.0001 \quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (b)

> - Mr. Jones and Ms. Clark both make mistakes, and Mr. Roberts and Ms.
>   Williams do not make a mistake.

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && && P(M \cap M \cap N \cap N) &= P(M)^2 * P(N)^2 &&
  \textit{\{12, theorem 2.11 [Walpole, Myers, Myers, Ye]\}} \\
     && &&                           &= 0.1^2 * 0.9^2 &&
  \textit{\{10,11\}} \\
     && && P(M \cap M \cap N \cap N) &= 0.0081 \quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
</section>
<section>

## problem 4

> Suppose that you work for an insurance company and you sell a
> $100,000 fire insurance policy at an annual premium of $1,350.
> Experience has shown that:
>
> The probability of total loss (due to fire) to a house in that area
> and of the size of your customer’s house is `0.002` (in which case
> the insurance company will pay the full $100,000 to the customer).
>
> The probability of 50% damage (due to fire) to a house in that area
> and of the size of your customer’s house is `0.008` (in which case
> the insurance company will pay only $50,000 to the customer).
>
> For simplicity, we’ll ignore any other partial losses.

$$
\begin{aligned}
(13) && &&    T &:= \$100,000 && \textit{event of a total loss} \\
(14) && &&    H &:= \$50,000 && \textit{event of a 50\% loss} \\
(15) && && P(T) &:= 0.002 \\
(16) && && P(H) &:= 0.008 \\
(17) && &&    O &:= \$0 && \textit{event of no loss} \\
     && && P(O) = P((T \cap H)') \\
     && &&      = 1 - P(T \cap H) \\
(18) && && P(O) = 0.990 \\
\end{aligned}
$$

<section>

### part (a)

> Let the random variable `X` be the insurance company’s annual gain
> from such a policy (i.e., the amount of money made by the insurance
> company from such a policy).
>
> Find the probability distribution of `X`. In other words, list the
> possible values that `X` can have, and their corresponding
> probabilities. (Hint: There are three possibilities here: no fire,
> total loss due to fire, 50% damage due to fire).

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && &&    Y &:= \{O,H,T\} &&
  \textit{set of possible payouts} \\
     && && h(Y) &:= \$1,350 - Y &&
  \textit{annual gain is premium minus payout} \\
     && &&    X &= \{h(x) | \forall x \in \{T,H,\$0\}\} &&
  \textit{annual gain is premium minus payout} \\
(19) && &&    X &= \{-\$998650, -\$48650, \$1350\} \\
(20) && && f(x) &= \Bigg\lbrace\begin{aligned}
                     & 0.002, &&\text{for } x \equiv -\$998650 \\
                     & 0.008, &&\text{for } x \equiv -\$48650 \\
                     & 0.990, &&\text{for } x \equiv \$1350 \\
                   \end{aligned} \quad\blacksquare &&
  \textit{probability distribution function} \\
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (b)

> What is the mean (expected) annual gain for a policy of this type? In
> other words, what is the mean of `X`?

$$
\begin{aligned}
     && && g(X=x) &= x \in X \\
     && && E[g(X)] &= \sum_x g(x)f(x) &&
  \textit{\{19,20\}} \\
     && &&      &= -\$998650 (0.002) \\
     && &&      &\space\space + (-\$48650)(0.008) \\
     && &&      &\space\space + \$1350 (0.990) \\
(21) && && E[g(X)] &= \$750 \quad\blacksquare \\
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
<section>

### part (c)

> The insurance company gets information about gas leakage in several
> houses that use the same gas provider that your customer does. In
> light of this new information, the probabilities of total loss and
> 50% damage (that were originally `0.002` and `0.008`, respectively)
> are tripled (to `0.006` for total loss and `0.024` for 50% damage).
> Obviously, this change in the probabilities should be reflected in
> the annual premium, to account for the added risk that the insurance
> company is taking. What should be the new annual premium (instead of
> $1,350), if the company wants to keep its expected gain of $750?
>
> Guidance: Let the new premium (instead of 1,350) be denoted by `N`,
> for new. Set up the new probability distribution of `X` using the
> updated probabilities, and using `N` instead of 1,350. (The answer to
> question 1 will help.)
>
> The question now is: What should the value of
> `N` (the new premium) be, if we want the mean of `X` to remain `750`?
> Set up an equation with `N` as unknown, and solve for `N`.

$$
\begin{aligned}
(22) && \because
        && f'(x) &= \Bigg\lbrace\begin{aligned}
                     & 0.006, &&\text{for } x \equiv T \\
                     & 0.024, &&\text{for } x \equiv H \\
                     & 0.970, &&\text{for } x \equiv O \\
                   \end{aligned} &&
  \textit{updated pdf} \\
(23) && && g'(X) &:= N - X \\
     && && E[g'(X)] &= \sum_x g'(x)f'(x) \\
     && &&          &= (N - T)f(T) \\
     && &&          &\space\space + (N - H)f(H) \\
     && &&          &\space\space + (N - O)f(O) \\
     && &&        N &= E[g(X)] &&
  \textit{factor out \& solve for N} \\
     && &&          &\space\space - f(T)T &&
  \textit{$f(T) + f(H) + f(O) \equiv 1$} \\
     && &&          &\space\space - f(H)H \\
     && &&          &\space\space - f(O)O \\
     && &&        N &= \$750 \\
     && &&          &\space\space + 0.006(\$100,000) \\
     && &&          &\space\space + 0.024(\$50,000) \\
     && &&          &\space\space + 0.970(\$0) &&
  \textit{\{13,14,17,21,22\}} \\
     && \therefore
        &&        N &= \$2550 \quad\blacksquare \\
\end{aligned}
$$

</section>
</section>
