MATH 474 Probability and Statistics \
Spring 2026

Andrew Chang-DeWitt \
Jan. 12, 2026 \
Time spent: 40 minutes

# Homework 1

Due on Canvas at 8:59pm on Wednesday, January 21. \
Please write down the time you spent on this homework on the top

## Problem 0 (2 points).

:::{.question}

> If you have not yet read the course syllabus, please do so now. Are students
> allowed to use AI to solve homework problems?

:::

No AI is allowed.

## Problem 1 (8 points).

:::{.question}

> This question is intended for me to know your background and goals.

:::

##### (a) What is your major and which year are you in?

Computer Science, final semester undergraduate.

##### (b) What are your plans after graduation?

Plan A: Get a job as a software engineer (ideally working on compilers); Plan
B: get a masters degree in Computer Science focusing on PL theory & compilers.

##### (c) Do you think probability and statistics will be useful in your career? If so, how?

At least somewhat useful as a tool for comparing different outcomes in performance testing. It's definitely useful if I end up having to take a job in AI/ML, but I'd rather not work on AI if I don't have to.

##### (d) What relevant courses have you taken?

CS 484 Intro to Machine Learning, discrete mathematics (counting, basic probability, set theory)

## Problem 2 (10 points).

:::{.question}

> Data scientists working for an online retailer are interested in the version
> of the website resulting in more purchases. 10000 unique visits to the
> website are tracked over a single week. Each time a customer visits the
> website, one of two versions are loaded: Version A or Version B. The data
> scientists track the visits and website versions resulting in a purchase.

:::

##### (a) What is the population?

All unique customers.

##### (b) What is the sample size?

10,000

##### (c) Which of the following applies in this scenario?

- [x] **Data scientists randomly assigned each visit to the website to see
      Version A or Version B.**
- [ ] ~~Visitors to the website selected Version A or Version B on their own.~~

##### (d) Does this scenario describe an observational study or a designed experiment?

A designed experiment.

## Problem 3 (10 points).

:::{.question}

> Researchers plan to do an exit poll following a local election. The
> researchers believe polling places are similar, and decide to randomly select
> 15 polling places throughout the city. Each polling place is assigned a staff
> member. As voters leave the polling place, the staff member asks them to take
> a short survey. At the end of the day, 1031 voters have been surveyed.

:::

##### (a) What is the population?

Voters in a local election.

##### (b) What is the sample size?

1,031

##### (c) Which of the following applies in this scenario?

- [ ] ~~Researchers influenced survey participants to vote for their preferred candidate.~~
- [x] **Researchers surveyed participants without influencing their vote.**

##### (d) Does this scenario describe an observational study or a designed experiment?

Observational study.

## Problem 4 (10 points).

:::{.question}

> Read Chapter 1.2.2 (Processes over time) of the text book.

:::

##### (a) In Deming’s funnel experiment, how do funnel adjustments affect future errors? Explain.

They increase the variability of the outcome, thus increasing the scale of
future errors by an amount directly related to the scale of the funnel
adjustments. This is because the adjustments were made in response to the scale
of the previous marble's error despite the fact that the previous marble's

##### (b) In a control chart, where is the lower control limit located?

3 standard deviations below the center line.

## Problem 5 (10 points).

> Read Chapter 1.2.4 (Designed Experiments) of the text book.

##### (a) How many trials does a factorial experiment with 2 levels and 3 factors require?

$2^3 = 8$

##### (b) Is the total trials in a fractional factorial are equal to, greater than, or less than the total trials in a factorial experiment?

less than
