:::hgroup{.titlegroup}

# hw 4

Andrew Chang-DeWitt \
Math 474, Fall 2025 \
2025 Sept. 17

:::

## problem 1

> According to www.jointogether.com, in 2000, 87% of all suicides were
> committed by males, 56% of all suicides were committed using a gun, and 10%
> of all suicides were committed by women not using a gun. (We’ll use $M$ for
> suicide committed by a male, $F[= not M]$ for suicide committed by female,
> and $G$ for a suicide committed using a gun.) Which of the following is a
> correct representation of the given information in a two-way probability
> table?

~Table D:~

|       | G   | G'  | total |
| ----- | --- | --- | ----- |
| M     | .53 | .34 | .87   |
| F     | .03 | .10 | .13   |
| total | .56 | .44 | 1     |

$\blacksquare$

> [!WARNING]
>
> ### feedback:
>
> You said Table D but wrote out Table B? 2/5

## problem 2

> Researchers studied thousands of court cases. For each case, they recorded
> the jury’s decision. In addition, they asked the judge in each case how he or
> she would have decided the same case if there were no jury. In 67% of the
> cases the jury voted to convict, in 83% of the cases the judge would have
> convicted, and in 19% of the cases only the judge would have convicted. Let $A$
> be the event “jury convicts” Let $B$ be the event “judge convicts”. Complete
> the two-way probability table of the same format as in the previous problem!

|       | A   | A'  | total |
| ----- | --- | --- | ----- |
| B     | .64 | .19 | .83   |
| B'    | .03 | .14 | .17   |
| total | .67 | .33 | 1     |

$\blacksquare$

## problem 3

> Solve exercise 2.58 in the textbook. (Compute some probabilities when rolling
> a pair of dice.)

### part (a)

> A pair of fair dice is tossed. Find the probability of getting [...] a total of 8;

$$
\begin{aligned}
 (1) && \because   && A &:= \{ (2,6),(3,5),(4,4),(5,3),(6,2) \}, && &&
   \textit{outcomes that sum to 8} \\
 (2) &&            && S &:= \{ (1,1),(1,2),...,(1,6),(2,1),...,(6,6) \}, && &&
   \textit{all possible outcomes} \\
 (3) &&            && P(A) &:= \frac{|A|}{|S|}
\\
 (4) &&            && |A| &= 5          && && \textit{\{1\}} \\
 (5) &&            && |S| &= 6 * 6 = 36 && && \textit{\{2\}} \\
\\
     && \therefore && P(A) &= \frac{5}{36} && && \textit{\{3,4,5\}} \\
     &&            && P(A) &= 0.13\bar{8}  && &&
  \textit{chance of total of 8}\quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

### part (b)

> [A pair of fair dice is tossed. Find the probability of getting ...] at most a total of 5.

$$
\begin{aligned}
 (6) && \because   && B &:= \begin{aligned}\{&(1,1),(1,2),(1,3),(1,4), \\
                                             &(2,1),(2,2),(2,3), \\
                                             &(3,1),(3,2), \\
                                             &(4,1)\},
                            \end{aligned} && &&
   \textit{outcomes w/ sums no greater than 5} \\
 (7) &&            && P(B) &:= \frac{|B|}{|S|}
\\
 (8) &&            && |B| &= 10         && && \textit{\{6\}} \\
\\
     && \therefore && P(B) &= \frac{10}{36} && && \textit{\{5,7,8\}} \\
     &&            && P(B) &= 0.2\bar{7}    && &&
  \textit{chance of total less than or equal to 5}\quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

## problem 4

> Solve exercise 2.72 in the textbook. (Prove a certain equality of
> probabilities!)
>
> Prove that
>
> $P(A' \cup B') = 1 + P(A \cap B) − P(A) − P(B)$.

given theorems 2.7 & 2.9 from the textbook & some reasoning about the complements of intersections & unions:

$$
\begin{aligned}
 (9) && \because  &&  P(A \cup B) &= P(A) + P(B) - P(A \cap B), && &&
  \textit{\{theorem 2.7 [Walpole, Myers, Myers, Ye]\}} \\
(10) &&           && P(A) + P(A') &= 1, && &&
  \textit{\{theorem 2.9 [Walpole, Myers, Myers, Ye]\}} \\
(11) &&           && A' \cup B' &= (A \cap B)' && &&
  \textit{complement rule} \\
\end{aligned}
$$

the hypothesis above can be proven like so:

$$
\begin{aligned}
P(A' \cup B') &= 1 + P(A \cap B) − P(A) − P(B)                 &&
    \textit{problem as given} \\
              &= 1 + (P(A) + P(B) - P(A \cup B)) − P(A) − P(B) &&
    \textit{\{9 in terms of $P(A \cap B)$\}} \\
              &= 1 - P(A \cup B)                               &&
    \textit{simplify} \\
              &= P((A \cup B)')                                &&
    \textit{\{10\}} \\
P(A' \cup B') &= P(A' \cup B')                                 &&
    \textit{\{11\}}\quad\blacksquare
\end{aligned}
$$

> [!WARNING]
>
> ### feedback:
>
> Make sure you read the problem correctly! You used some of the right techniques but got the wrong answer. 2/5

## problem 5

> Solve exercise 2.74 in the textbook:
>
> A class in advanced physics is composed of 10 juniors, 30 seniors, and 10
> graduate students. The final grades show that 3 of the juniors, 10 of the
> seniors, and 5 of the graduate students received an A for the course. If a
> student is chosen at random from this class and is found to have earned an A,
> what is the probability that he or she is a senior?
